Some iOS good practices article (#111)
rootstrap/blog: content/iOS/Practices/iOS-practices.md

Whatever architecture pattern you decide on, it's very important to keep related functions together in sections organized with Marks. Some examples for controllers are: View Lifecycle, Layout, User Interaction, Protocol Implementation, etc. 

It is also a nice practice to separate private functions into a private extension, so that a client at a glance at the class can differentiate the interface from the implementation.  

## Resource Management 

As we mention before we want to have a folder in the root of the project for the resources our app will need, there are many types of resources so its helpful to organize them in different folders according to their type, for example, you may have: property lists, images, gifs, JSONs... ant the list goes on.

For images, Xcode provides a very helpful resource bundle named xassets. 
Here we'll store the images our app uses, if your app has a fancy UI and uses loads of them is good to have them grouped in folders that describe their use. 

> Images may be heavy, and we want our apps to be as small in size as possible, so if we find yourself having to add the same image in different colors its recommended to use them as templates and color them in code instead of adding different versions of the same image.  

Reviewer: This is good! WDYT of adding the recommendation of adding images without borders/ backgrounds and do this programmatically as well. It is a common issue even in our projects, sometimes you find the exact same image one with a border and the other one plain.

Also, the naming of the resource itself should be descriptive enough so that you'll find it quickly and makes sense in the place you reference it. 

## Storyboards and xibs vs Code

Storyboards and xibs are great when you start learning to code in swift. 

> The visual help does a lot kickstarting your designs and helping you understand `NSLayoutConstraints`.

Reviewer: I would change it to `Auto Layout`

Also if well handled, the way they represent the flow helps you understand a lot of the app by having a glance at it.

> However... They are heavy and often take a lot to load, connections between storyboard views and code are not checked in compiler time so you may have crashes if not careful, when working in a team the merge conflicts will be very hard to solve, its very annoying to review the autogenerated code in Pull Requests, it doesn't favor reuse and componentization, and most importantly there's not a "single source of truth" for your UI code. UI and navigation code will be divided between storyboards and your view controllers making it way harder to understand and maintain. 

Reviewer: I would split this in multiple sentences or bullet points to avoid the really long sentence.

So my inclination here is to do all UI work in code.

> Once you understand how `NSLayoutConstraint` works, identify the code you are repeating, and develop helpers to avoid that, you'll find yourself accomplishing results faster, and with fewer lines of code. 

Reviewer: same here, Auto Layout involves a lot more than just constraints.

Code review processes will go much smoother, you'll find much more opportunities to reuse, and you'll find all UI work in a single place and avoid jumping from storyboards or xibs to code every minute.

> If you loved the way you were able to quickly grasp your app's flow in the storyboard my recommendation would be to include flow diagrams in the code base, which may save precious time in the future!  

Reviewer: I am not sure if recommending this. I personally haven't done this myself and I think this would add the extra work of updating those on every flow modification. But I don't really know really.

Author: Haven't done this myself lol. But if someone's concern is to lose the visual sense of the app flow when removing storyboards this may be a good suggestion

Reviewer: Cool, in that case I would clarify that that way may require extra work as well. If they choose to do so they need to know the implications :)

Within these folders, group files tightly related to the feature in question. I like to divide them into different folders as follows: Models, Views, View Models, Managers, and Protocols. 

### Organize common code

In the root, besides the feature-specific folders I like to keep an Extension, Helpers, Common, and Resources folders.

In the Extension folder: keep extensions of the most used native controls and objects. 

In the Helpers folder: keep Constant files and classes you use regularly on the whole codebase. 

In Resources folder: keep any resource file your app will consume, these may be: Property lists, JSONs, Images, etc.

In Common folder: keep classes reused all along the codebase including: views, managers, protocols, as usual separated by type in different folders. 

So the next time I want to do an update, by a glance to the root I know the features my app implements and I can easily navigate to the file I want to update.  

### Files Structure

Within file classes keep related functions together in sections organized with Marks. Some examples for controllers are: View Lifecycle, Layout, User Interaction, Protocol Implementation, etc. 

> It is also a nice practice to separate private functions into a private extension, so that a client at a glance at the class can differentiate the interface from the implementation.  

Reviewer 2: I don't think it's correct to say at a glance at something. You can say glance at something or at a glance, but both together sounds weird, I might be wrong though. Maybe you could rephrase it like this: (?)

```suggestion
It is also a nice practice to separate private functions into a private extension so that a client can easily differentiate the interface from the implementation by taking a glance at the class.
```

## Architecture Patterns

> Be very mindful of the pattern you are gonna follow in your new project and stick with it! 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Be very mindful of the pattern you are going to follow in your new project and stick with it! 
```

There's no right answer on what pattern to follow, it depends a lot on your project. I won't be enumerating every option as there are so many, and new ones keep being invented every day according to the new challenges we face as time passes, and we start seeing flaws in the existent ones.
So, let's stick to the more common ones for now. 

### MVC

Like many others, at first I started coding in MVC, one of the simpler ones. 
This pattern divides responsibilities into three class types: Models, Views, and Controllers. 

> Models deals with data logic, Views display the UI and the Controllers handles communication between the two, navigation, and business logic.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Models deal with data logic, Views display the UI and the Controllers handle communication between the two, navigation, and business logic.  
```

The problem with this pattern is that a lot of the responsibilities fall in the controllers' job, making them huge and ugly beasts that can be a real pain to maintain, test, and reuse in the future. 

### MVVM

This pattern divides responsibilities within Models, Views, and View Models, and is one of the most popular.

> Business logic and communication between Models and Views are now responsibility of the ViewModel, leaving the Controller job to only handle user interaction, displaying the digested information the View Model provides in Views, and handling navigation. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Business logic and communication between Models and Views are now responsibility of the ViewModel, leaving the Controller job to only handle user interaction, displaying the digested information the View Model provides to Views, and handling navigation. 
```

Author: I think is correct as is: display in vs display to.

This extra separation of concerns allows us to keep a cleaner code base as well as facilitating unit testing.

> There are a bunch of variations of this pattern, the most popular ones include a Coordinator that would handle navigation and flow of the app relieving view controllers from this work.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are a bunch of variations of this pattern, the most popular one includes a Coordinator to handle the navigation and flow of the app relieving view controllers from this work.  
```

For an example of this implementation you can check out [Rootstrap's iOS base](https://github.com/rootstrap/ios-base) a very helpful iOS project template to let you jump into your new project quickly. Check this [article](https://www.rootstrap.com/blog/2019/10/25/whats-great-about-our-ios-base/) to find out more about why we did that and how helpful it has been for us.  

## Resource Management 

> As we mentioned before we want to have a folder in the project's root for the resources our app will need, there are many types of resources so its helpful to organize them in different folders according to their type, for example, you may have: property lists, images, gifs, JSONs... and the list goes on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As we mentioned before, we want to have a folder in the project's root for the resources our app will need. There are many types of resources so it's helpful to organize them in different folders according to their type, for example, you may have: property lists, images, gifs, JSONs... and the list goes on.
```

For images, Xcode provides a very helpful resource bundle named xassets. 

> Here we'll store the images our app uses. If your app has a fancy UI and uses loads of them is good to have them grouped in folders that describe their use. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here we'll store the images our app uses. If your app has a fancy UI and uses loads of them it's good to have them grouped in folders that describe their use. 
```

> 

Reviewer 4: I would end the sentence in `...uses.` and start a new one with `If your app..`

> Images may be heavy, and we want our apps to be as small in size as possible, so if we find yourself having to add the same image in different colors its recommended to use them as templates and color them in code instead of adding different versions of the same image. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Images may be heavy, and we want our apps to be as small in size as possible, so if you find yourself having to add the same image in different colors its recommended to use them as templates and color them in code instead of adding different versions of the same image. 
```

> Images may be heavy, and we want our apps to be as small in size as possible, so if you find yourself having to add the same image in different colors its recommended to use them as templates and color them in code instead of adding different versions of the same image. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Images may be heavy, and we want our apps to be as small in size as possible, so if you find yourself having to add the same image in different colors it's recommended to use them as templates and color them in code instead of adding different versions of the same image. 
```

This is actually really good advice! For some time (longer than I would like to admit) I was completely unaware that it was possible

> Same goes for images with borders or different backgrounds, you'll save space by adding those decorations in code.  

Reviewer 4: nice suggestion 👍  Didn't know this was an option 😄

Once you understand how `Auto Layout` works, identify the code you are repeating, and develop helpers to avoid that, you'll find yourself accomplishing results faster, and with fewer lines of code. 
Code review processes will go much smoother, you'll find much more opportunities to reuse, and you'll find all UI work in a single place and avoid jumping from storyboards or xibs to code every minute.

If you loved the way you were able to quickly grasp your app's flow in the storyboard my recommendation would be to include flow diagrams in the code base, which may save precious time in the future!  

## Third-party Library Usage

Adding a third-party dependency to your codebase should be a conscious decision.
Some of them may help solve problems fast at first, but you may find yourself stuck when maintaining, either for lack of customizability or because it breaks with a new OS update. Also, they all have a learning curve, so other collaborators may have a hard time understanding how they work. 

When you find yourself integrating a third-party library, make sure you encapsulate it by defining a protocol and developing an implementation of it by calling the third-party library APIs. 

> That way your code won't be tangled with it, and when you need to update, replace for another library, or by your own implementation you'll only need to touch a single file. 

Reviewer 4: awesome recommendation!  👍

# A few iOS practices that can go a long way when maintaining your projects.

> *[Germán Stábile](https://www.rootstrap.com/tech-blog/) is an iOS developer on the Rootstrap team who writes about the challenges faced during iOS development. You can also follow Germán on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/german-stabile-61a1b755/).*

Reviewer 4: using my favorite feature: 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/8755889/83076698-63c47700-a04c-11ea-9c34-382a043d54e8.png)

I entered because I thought it was weird that it was a generic tech-blog link and not something more personal like the linkedin link.

Reviewer 4: https://www.rootstrap.com/blog/. this is RS blog url, with blog instead of tech-blog

Author: I wanted to reference @glm4 iOS base article but apparently I screw up the copy pasta 🍝

Reviewer 4: mmmm I think here you want to mention your blogs profile, since it is inside a Germán Stábile text. You actually mention later in the article an iOS base article and that link is ok.

> *[Germán Stábile](https://www.rootstrap.com/tech-blog/) is an iOS developer on the Rootstrap team who writes about the challenges faced during iOS development. You can also follow Germán on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/german-stabile-61a1b755/).*

Reviewer 6: 🌫️ 🌫️ 🌫️

Author: Lol 
Wasn’t this the default header for articles ?

Reviewer 6: I don't know haha, it's the first time I'm seeing it.

Reviewer 4: me too xD

## Introduction 

Have you ever had to maintain or add features to a project you developed in the past and think: who wrote this and why do they hate me so much? 

> I think this is quite normal since having in mind that some projects grow way bigger than we initially expected, and even when you have the best intentions, and you put lots of love and hard work in them, as you mature as a developer you start incorporating more and more practices, and the way you develop changes drastically, making it difficult and annoying to go back to older projects.

Reviewer 4: Something bothers me in this part `since having in mind`, I don't know if it is just me. 
I think maybe I would say `I think this is quite normal**,** having in mind that...` (adding a comma and deleting the since) or maybe like this `I think this is quite normal **considering** that...`. I know considering looks like Spanish badly translated but google told me it existed and it was ok to use it 😄

Reviewer 6: I added a comment for this too. I can't wrap my mind around the `since having in mind`. I proposed changing `since having` for `if we have`, but I really like the `considering that` alternative too.

> I think this is quite normal since having in mind that some projects grow way bigger than we initially expected, and even when you have the best intentions, and you put lots of love and hard work in them, as you mature as a developer you start incorporating more and more practices, and the way you develop changes drastically, making it difficult and annoying to go back to older projects.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
I think this is quite normal if we have in mind that some projects grow way bigger than we initially expected, and even when you have the best intentions, and you put lots of love and hard work in them, as you mature as a developer you start incorporating more and more practices, and the way you develop changes drastically, making it difficult and annoying to go back to older projects.
```

I think it reads a little bit better that way.

## Architecture Patterns

Be very mindful of the pattern you are gonna follow in your new project and stick with it! 

There's no right answer on what pattern to follow, it depends a lot on your project. I won't be enumerating every option as there are so many, and new ones keep being invented every day according to the new challenges we face as time passes, and we start seeing flaws in the existent ones.
So, let's stick to the more common ones for now. 

### MVC

Like many others, at first I started coding in MVC, one of the simpler ones. 
This pattern divides responsibilities into three class types: Models, Views, and Controllers. 
Models deals with data logic, Views display the UI and the Controllers handles communication between the two, navigation, and business logic.  

The problem with this pattern is that a lot of the responsibilities fall in the controllers' job, making them huge and ugly beasts that can be a real pain to maintain, test, and reuse in the future. 

### MVVM

This pattern divides responsibilities within Models, Views, and View Models, and is one of the most populars.

> Business logic and communication between Models and Views are now responsibility of the ViewModel leaving the Controller responsibility to only handle user interaction, displaying the digested information the View Model provides in Views, and handling navigation. 

Reviewer 4: I think it is just `popular` without the `s`. 

`are now responsibility of the ViewModel, leaving`. I will add a comma there, otherwise, the ViewModel is leaving because the Models and Views kick him out.

This extra separation of concerns allows us to keep a cleaner code base as well as facilitating unit testing.

There are a bunch of variations of this pattern, the most popular ones include a Coordinator that would handle navigation and flow of the app relieving view controllers from this work.  

For an example of this implementation you can check out [Rootstrap's iOS base](https://github.com/rootstrap/ios-base) a very helpful iOS project template to let you jump into your new project quickly. Check this [article](https://www.rootstrap.com/blog/2019/10/25/whats-great-about-our-ios-base/) to find out more about why we did that and how helpful it has been for us.  

## Resource Management 

As we mentioned before we want to have a folder in the root of the project for the resources our app will need, there are many types of resources so its helpful to organize them in different folders according to their type, for example, you may have: property lists, images, gifs, JSONs... and the list goes on.

> 

Reviewer 4: `As we mentioned before, we want to have a folder in the -root of the project- (project's root?) for the resources our app will need.` I would add a comma after `before`, end the sentence in need and start a new sentence with `There are many...`. And the root of the project or the project's root I'm not sure, just something that came to mind.

Code review processes will go much smoother, you'll find much more opportunities to reuse, and you'll find all UI work in a single place and avoid jumping from storyboards or xibs to code every minute.

If you loved the way you were able to quickly grasp your app's flow in the storyboard my recommendation would be to include flow diagrams in the code base, which may save precious time in the future!  

## Third-party Library Usage

Adding a third-party dependency to your codebase should be a conscious decision.
Some of them may help solve problems fast at first, but you may find yourself stuck when maintaining, either for lack of customizability or because it breaks with a new OS update. Also, they all have a learning curve, so other collaborators may have a hard time understanding how they work. 

When you find yourself integrating a third-party library, make sure you encapsulate it by defining a protocol and developing an implementation of it by calling the third-party library APIs. 
That way your code won't be tangled with it, and when you need to update, replace for another library, or by your own implementation you'll only need to touch a single file. 

> I hope these practices are so helpful to you as they are to me. 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
I hope these practices are as helpful to you as they are to me. 
```
